feat: Doc AI hub (#1849)
aiven/aiven-docs: docs/ai-features.md

---
title: AI tools on Aiven
sidebar_label: Overview
description: Connect AI coding assistants and agents to Aiven services with MCP servers and Skills, and find AI capabilities built into Aiven services.
---

import Card from "@site/src/components/Card";
import GridContainer from "@site/src/components/GridContainer";
import RelatedPages from "@site/src/components/RelatedPages";
import Link from "@docusaurus/Link";
import AI from "@site/static/images/logos/star-ai.svg";

> Aiven provides tools that connect your own AI agents to your data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Aiven provides tools that connect your AI agents to Aiven services, metadata, and data.
```
Some of these tools connect agents to Aiven services and metadata, not just data.

It also builds AI capabilities directly into its managed services, from vector search to
AI assistants. Use the following sections to find the right starting point for your
use case.

## Choose your path

<GridContainer columns={2}>
  <Card
    to="#connect-ai-agents-and-tools-to-aiven"
    iconComponent={AI}
    titleHighlight="#FDCD12"
    title="Connect AI agents and tools to Aiven"

>     description="Give coding assistants and AI agents access to your Aiven services."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description="Connect AI assistants and agents to Aiven services, metadata, and data."
```

It’s broader and more accurate across the tools in this section.

  />
  <Card
    to="#ai-built-into-aiven-services"
    iconComponent={AI}
    titleHighlight="#6F64FF"
    title="AI built into Aiven services"

>     description="Find vector search, query optimization, and SQL generation built into the services you already use."

Reviewer: Could we change “the services you already use” to “supported Aiven services”?

```suggestion
    description="Use vector search, query optimization, and SQL generation built into supported Aiven services."
```

  />
</GridContainer>

## Connect AI agents and tools to Aiven

Give AI coding assistants and agents controlled access to services such as Aiven for

> Apache Kafka®, instead of manual commands.

Reviewer: How about this: 

Connect AI assistants and agents to Aiven to manage services, explore metadata, and work with data using MCP servers and Skills.

> | Tool | What it exposes | Get started |

Reviewer: Instead of "What it exposes" (feels implementation-oriented) how about renaming the column to "What you can do"

| --- | --- | --- |
| Aiven MCP server | Create and manage services, plans, metrics, logs, and configuration from Cursor, Claude Code, and other MCP clients | [Set up Aiven MCP](/docs/tools/mcp-server) |

> | DataHub MCP server | Give AI agents natural language search, lineage tracking, and context-aware SQL generation over your data ecosystem | [Use the DataHub MCP server](/docs/products/datahub/datahub-mcp-server) |

Reviewer: Add LA tag for DataHub?
